New documentation content (#671)
graknlabs/docs: 0001-typedb/02-dev/01-connections.md

```

[tab:end]
</div>

## Sessions

There are two types of sessions: 

- SCHEMA sessions,
- DATA sessions. 

| Session type | Read data | Write data | Read schema  | Write schema |
|--------------|-----------|------------|--------------|--------------|
| DATA         | Yes       | Yes        | Yes          | Yes          |
| SCHEMA       |           | No         | Yes          | No           |

TypeDB clients should read and write data in DATA sessions.

TypeDB clients should read and write schema in SCHEMA sessions.

<div class="note">
[Note]
If a client needs to read both schema and data from a database, it can be done in any session type. But it is 
NOT possible to modify a schema and its data in the same session, regardless of the type. Write transactions are strict 
to the session types.
</div>

Once a session has been opened, clients can open and close transactions to read and write a database’s schema or data.

<div class="tabs dark">
[tab:TypeDB Console]

TypeDB Console

[tab:end]

[tab:Java]

Java

[tab:end]

[tab:Node.js]

Node.js

[tab:end]

[tab:Python]

```python
client.session(‘iam’, SessionType.SCHEMA) as session:
```

[tab:end]
</div>

<div class="note">
[Note]

> It is recommended to avoid long-running sessions, because of possible network failures.

Reviewer: I don't understand what this recommendation means.

Author: Consider avoiding sessions that stay up for a long time doing nothing. It is better to close the session and open another one later when you need it.

</div>

> A good principle is that sessions group logically coherent transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good principle to follow is for logically coherent transactions to be grouped together into sessions.
```

Author: ```suggestion
A good principle to follow is for logically coherent transactions to be grouped together into a session.
```

### Best practices

- Avoid long-running transactions which can result in conflicts and resource contention.
- A good principle is that transactions group logically coherent queries.

## ACID guarantees

### Atomicity

TypeDB transactions are all or nothing. If a commit succeeds, all of its changes are persisted. If it fails, all of its 
changes will be rolled back.

### Consistency

TypeDB validates all changes to data and schemas. If changes to a database violate schema or data constraints, the 
transaction will fail and be rolled back.

### Isolation

TypeDB transactions use snapshot isolation and optimistic concurrency control to support simultaneous, lock-free 
read/write transactions. Thus, a transaction operates on its own snapshot of the data, independent of any other. All 
of its changes are hidden from other transactions. However, they will become visible immediately after a successful 
commit. 

If two transactions attempt to modify the same data, one will succeed on commit while the other will fail. However, 
one transaction can read data while another is writing it.

### Durability

> TypeDB writes transactions to a write-ahead-log upon commit, ensuring they can be recovered if an unexpected failure 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TypeDB writes transactions to a write-ahead log upon commit, ensuring they can be recovered if an unexpected failure 
```

(e.g., power outage) occurs before the data is modified.

<div class="note">
[Note]
TypeDB durability guarantees do not apply when storage devices become corrupt or damaged.
</div>

> Successful write transactions are written to the write-ahead-log before returning a response to the client. If a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Successful write transactions are written to the write-ahead-log before returning a response to the client. If a 
```
```suggestion
Successful write transactions are written to the write-ahead log before returning a response to the client. If a 
```
